## NYC Subway Sign
December, 2016

<building-projects-header imgur-image-id="pehxxUh" imgur-album-id="i1OgC" reddit-comment-id="5key3j">
</building-project-header>

I was asking my sister for Christmas gift ideas for my brother-in-law a while ago, and she mentioned
in passing that he really liked
[this](http://underground-signs.com/new-york/nyc-subway/6/86-street-4527.html) subway sign replica.
$300 USD seemed a bit steep to me, and this looked like a feasible DIY project :) I started a thread
with our makers group at work to get some ideas about how this could be done, and the consensus was
that our makers lab's vinyl printer could be used to create design stencils, painted letting would
last the longest, and a clear polyurethane would give it a nice sealed finish.

The first step was to create the design for the board. I used [Inkscape](https://inkscape.org/) to
create the design, using an image from the site above as a template. Considering I had no experience
with Inkscape, I was suprised that I was able to put this all together in about an hour, down to
perfect sizing, lettering and coloring. Inkscape was a good choice too as it outputs to SVG which
was necessary to be compatible with the vinyl cutter.

This ended up being a project of re-using materials. I started with a nice piece of wood from Seb's
old hardwood floors. He cut it to 36" x 7.5" and planed it. I borrowed black paint from Chris and
put a couple quick coats over the board to create the base, and I borrowed white paint from Michelle
for the lettering. I used painter tape to outline the horizontal line, my template in Inkscape being
a huge help here as it gave me all the dimensions and offsets of the various parts. Unfortunately,
the painter tape ended up being pretty poor as the white paint bled through and the line looked
pretty rough. I used electrical tape to cover the line as I painted over the bleeding with a fine
tipped brush and black paint.

The next step was the apply the vinyl stencils. I made a few rough measurements for positioning the
left side lettering, but mostly I just visually lined it up with the left side of the board and the
horizontal line. I started the right side lettering by painting 3 rectangles approximately where
the numbers would be. After a few coats of white paint, I removed the left side stencil and the
result was pretty much perfect. I applied the right side stencil overtop of the rectangles, and then
applied a few coats of green paint. The result here was definitely less than perfect as the outline
of the rectangles was visible. I ended up sanding down those bevels and re-applying a coat, and then
repeating that process until I was satisfied with the result. When I removed the right side stencil,
the result was great!

Last, I applied three coats of water-based semi-gloss polyurethane. That gave it a nice shiny finish
and would help seal the design. It ended up being an in expensive gift as I only had to buy a few
extra paint brushes, the green paint and the polyeurathane. And most importantly, my sister and
brother-in-law loved it :)
