## Pipe Shelves
March, 2016

<blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/hWdXY">
  <a href="//imgur.com/hWdXY">Photo Gallery</a>
</blockquote>

I've been keeping most of my beer brewing equipment in the closet of one of my bedrooms because most
of it is too big to fit in the kitchen. I saw some posts on [r/DIY](http://www.reddit.com/r/diy)
about shelves built using piping for the framing, and I decided to ignore all the comments about how
this style is too cliche, ha. Screw the haters; I do what I want!

Whitney had mentioned using Sketchup for some of the designs she does, so one of the most time
consuming parts of this project ended up being getting Sketchup to run on Wine on Linux (and Wine
seems to have extra troubleshooting steps for every single piece of software #itdoesnotjustwork
\#sonofagun). The sketch turned out pretty good, giving enough room for the equipment and making me
sure that I'd be able to get around the thermostat on the wall.

Getting the materials was the next most time consuming part. After another trip to Home Depot spent
looking at stuff and not buying anything (like half my trips there), I finally figured that I should
order pipes of specific lengths instead of trying to cut them myself. And that would have been fine
and dandy except that Home Depot doesn't have black steel piping in short lengths. Rona does, but
they don't have the connectors in black steel (gah!). So I hit the Bois Ideal (a Rona franchise)
near my place and ordered all the piping (and they didn't even give me too much attitude like they
normally do), and then I bought the flanges, Ts and caps at Home Depot. Assembly went as planned
aside from one 1/2 inch pipe being threaded in a weird way that wouldn't let the cap screw in. A
quick exchange solved that.

Sizing the shelving was the easiet part. One 12-foot 2x12 cut into 4 32-inch pieces (what do
builders do with their leftovers?) worked simply enough. Home Depot even cut it for me. This lead to
the most annoying part of the project: The flooring in my condo isn't level, so that made the
shelves slant. I'm not talking just a little bit unlevel. Like between a 1/2 and 1 inch unlevel. I
borrowed a flat and round file from Chris and got to filing out two ruts in each board. After barely
getting through one of the four shelves, manually filing away while watching old episodes of the
X-Files, it became apparent that my hands were not happy with this labour. This began an internet
search for "drill bit" plus "file" plus "round" because what the hell do you call that damn bit
(Google search FTW -> ["rotary rasp"](https://www.google.com/search?q=rotary+rasp)). This sped up
the filing considerably, and I had me 4 (nearly) level shelves.

The finishing touches were some sanding and two coats of a dark brown, transparent stain which
worked pretty well aesthetically with the piping and my existing kitchen drawers. I thought about
also doing varnishing, but I was probably close to a month of time spent on this, and the result
seemed good enough :)
